Welcome to A Day in the Life
of a Machine Learning Engineer.
After watching this video, you will be able to:
Describe the importance and requirements of
each process in the lifecycle
of a machine learning model.
And, name the processes that are
more time-consuming than others.
Now, let’s go through the Lifecycle
of a Machine Learning Model
in a project that I am currently working on.
To help increase business revenue, I have
been tasked with creating and deploying a
model that recommends similar products
to what the customer has already bought.
I have worked together with the client
to come up with an end-user’s pain point:
“As a beauty product customer, I would
like to receive recommendations for
other products based on my purchase history so
that I will be able to address my skincare needs
and improve the overall health of my skin.”
Defining the problem or stating the
situation is very important, because I
want to make sure the machine learning solution I
am providing is aligned with the client’s needs.
Now, that I understand the client’s needs, the
next step is to begin data collection. I should
determine what kind of data the company has
and identify the sources it will come from.
This could be user data such as
demographics, purchase history,
and anything related to completed transactions.
I can also get the product data, that is,
the inventory of products and what they do,
their ingredients, how popular they
are, their customer ratings, and so on.
Further, I may look at other data that includes
information such as a user’s saved products,
liked products, search history,
most visited products, and so on.
Then, I will go ahead and do some major
transforming by wrangling, aggregating,
joining, merging, and mapping
the data onto one central source.
This reduces the need to deal with multiple
databases every time we need to pull data.
The next step in the process is
data preparation. Most of the time,
data from multiple sources will contain
errors, different formatting, and missing data.
This process overlaps with the Data Collection
process as they can be done in tandem.
The area of focus here is preparing
a somewhat final version of the data.
I will need to make sure that
the data is cleaned to filter out irrelevant data,
extreme values are removed to
avoid influencing the data set,
missing values are removed or randomly generated,
depending on what the missing
data may mean, and that
each data column is in the proper format.
For example, dates should be in date formats
and strings should be properly identified.
I may also need to create additional features.
For example, I may need to calculate the average
duration between transactions for each user
and find which products they buy the most.
Or, I may need a feature that
identifies what kind of skin
issues each product targets
and assign them to each user.
I can create plots to visually identify patterns,
validate the data based on information that the
beauty product subject matter expert has given me,
and do some correlation analysis to identify
what variables or features are very important
to the users’ buying habits and needs.
This is called Exploratory data analysis.
I can also identify how I plan on splitting
the data for training and testing.
For example, do I want to randomly split the data
or use the most recent transaction as a test set?
In this example, I decided to put the most
recent transaction in the test set and make
sure that there was at least one transaction
by that the same user in the training set.
In the Model Development step, I will go
ahead and build a Machine Learning model.
Realistically, I try to leverage as many
pre-existing frameworks and resources as possible,
so I don’t create anything from scratch.
For this task, I will use a technique
called content-based filtering.
This technique finds the similarity
between products, based on product content.
For example, if someone is using a cleanser with
lots of water, it is likely that the user has
dry skin and will want a moisturizer
that is highly moisturizing as well.
One of the steps I might take here
is to create a similarity score of
the products a user has purchased
and rank them to other products.
I might recommend the most similar product
while bearing in mind that there may be other
factors that could come into play. For example,
I might notice that the user has searched
for products without particular ingredients,
so I want to make sure that we are not
recommending a product that
they absolutely won’t use.
I will also use a technique called Collaborative
Filtering that uses the user’s data.
Here, I am creating similarities between
two users based on how they view a product.
For example, I can create a similarity,
based on how two users rate their product.
First, I group users into a bucket
based on their characteristics.
This could be age, region, and skin type,
products the users rated, and or purchased.
Then, I can take the average
ratings for existing members
and assume that the new user will
be somewhere around the average, and
recommend a product based on
what others have rated highly.
The final model will be a
combination of the two techniques.
After I am done building the model, I will go
ahead and test that the model is performing well
and that recommendations are
representing what the users want.
This is called the Model Evaluation step;
the initial stages of Model Evaluation
will involve me tuning the model and
doing some testing on the data set
I had kept earlier for testing.
Once I am satisfied with the results,
I will further evaluate the model
by experimenting with the recommendations on a
group of users and asking for their feedback.
The feedback will include asking the group
of users to rate the recommendations,
and collecting data on the
number of people who clicked
and bought the recommended products,
along with any other necessary metrics.
Now that I am done with building and testing,
the model is ready to go to production.
For this project, it will be a part
of the beauty product app and website.
While this is the last step, I still
need to track the deployed model’s
performance to make sure it continues to
do the job that the business requires.
Future iterations may include retraining
the model based on new information
in order to expand its capabilities.
In this video, you learned that:
Each of the steps of the
Machine Learning Model Lifecycle
is important to the success of the solution.
After deployment, continuous
monitoring and improvement is required
to ensure that the quality of
the solution is maintained.
Thank you for watching, A Day in the
Life of a Machine Learning Engineer.